In mediasoup, a Consumer will only stream media if three distinct layers of "pause" states are all cleared. It is a common pitfall to unpause one layer while another remains active.

Since you mentioned the Producer is streaming, the issue is likely in the Server-Side Consumer lifecycle or the Client-Side signaling handling.
The Checklist: Conditions for Media Flow

For a Consumer to receive media, ALL of the following must be true:

    Producer is Active: The associated Server-Side producer.paused must be false.

    Server Consumer is Active: The Server-Side consumer.paused must be false.

    Client Consumer is Active: The Client-Side (mediasoup-client) consumer.paused must be false.

    Transport is Connected: The underlying WebRTC Transport (DTLS/ICE) must be in a connected state.

Common Causes for "Stuck" Paused State
1. The "Create Paused" Trap (Most Likely)

It is a recommended best practice to create the Server-Side Consumer with { paused: true }. This ensures no media flows until the client is ready. However, you must explicitly call consumer.resume() on the server after the client successfully connects.

​

    Symptom: The client creates the consumer, but receives no media. The server-side consumer object shows paused: true.

    Fix: Ensure your signaling flow includes a specific resumeConsumer event sent from Client $\rightarrow$ Server after transport.consume() completes on the client.

2. Implicit "Producer Pause"

If the Producer is paused, the Consumer effectively pauses, but its internal paused property might behave differently depending on where you check it.

    Server-Side: If you call producer.pause(), the server-side Consumer emits a producerpause event. The Consumer is now effectively paused, but strict state checks might be confusing if you only look at consumer.paused (which tracks the consumer's own manual pause state).

    ​

    Client-Side: The mediasoup-client does not automatically know if the server-side producer paused. You must listen for the producerpause event on the server and manually send a signal to the client to update the UI or local state.

3. Client-Side Local Pause

The mediasoup-client consumer has its own pause() method.

    Condition: If you called consumer.pause() in your frontend code (e.g., to mute incoming audio locally), the server might still be sending RTP (wasting bandwidth) or the client might just be ignoring it.

    Note: mediasoup-client usually handles this efficiently, but ensure consumer.paused is false in your browser console.

4. Browser Auto-Play Policy

If this is an audio consumer, browsers (especially Chrome/Safari) will "pause" (block) the AudioContext or HTMLMediaElement if the user hasn't interacted with the page.

    Symptom: Mediasoup shows everything is "resumed" and "streaming," but the client hears nothing.

    Check: document.querySelector('video').paused or check if the AudioContext state is suspended.

Debugging Steps

Run these checks in order:

    Check Server State:
    Log the consumer state on your server:

javascript
console.log("Consumer paused:", consumer.paused);
console.log("Producer paused:", consumer.producerPaused); // Special property checking the associated producer
console.log("Consumer score:", consumer.score);

If consumer.score is 0, data is not flowing.

​

Verify Signaling for Resume:
If you used the pattern:
server.createConsumer({ paused: true }) $\rightarrow$ client.consume()
Did the client send a request back to the server to call await serverConsumer.resume()?

Check Transport:
On the client, check consumer.transport.connectionState. If it is new or checking and never moves to connected, it's an ICE/DTLS issue (firewall/ports), not a pause state issue.
